Hint Blocks are strange talking blocks that give out free hints.  Nobody knows why they do this.
Watch out for fuzzies!  They may seem small, but they can be dangerous in large groups.
Beware of the savage deserts!  There are creatures living there that can be found nowhere else.
If you must venture into the savage desert, be prepared to fight off fire-breathing monsters.
Dinosaurs roam the savage tropics.  Although dangerous, their body parts are very valuable.
Nipper plants are young pirahna plants.
If you catch a nipper plant while it is young, you can train it and use it as a guard when it grows up!
The chomp is one of the strongest creatures in the world.  But, its eyesight and endurance are poor, and it can't swim.
The chomp is strong, but unpredictable.  Stay out of its way when it gets angry!
Fire armor is not as strong as iron or steel, but it resists heat and cold alike.
The giant chomp's weakness?  It can't swim.  Use this to your advantage!
Many powerful creatures such as belomes or chomps are very vulnerable to lightning.
Toads are strong fighters in a pinch.  But a single strong blow can knock them to pieces.
Koopas are the toughest race in the world!  But their agility is lacking.
I wonder if koopas are as strong as they're supposed to be...
Piantas and bub-ulbs can use photosynthesis to make themselves stronger in the sunlight.
Piantas and bub-ulbs are weaker in caves.
Beanlets will hunt vermin around your stockpiles.  They're a must-have for any fortress!
The firebrand technique grants a secret power that will allow you to utterly destroy your enemies.  But it can't be used often...
Koopas can learn magic by consuming potions created through alchemy.
Magikoopa potions aren't quite as powerful as the magic slabs that descend from the heavens.
Bill blasters are powerful, but they take a long time to reload.
Bub-ulbs can live on water and sunlight alone.  But they can still benefit from eating power-up foods.
I've heard that an quick bob-omb can survive its own explosion...by outrunning it!
Being near water can help a bob-omb survive its own explosion.  It isn't especially reliable though.
Beware of amanitas!  Their spores can turn you into a mushroom.  But maybe this can be useful somehow...
Toads and beans are immune to the effects of the amanita's spores.  But shroobs, weird mushrooms, and polymorphing still affect them.
Did you know that plant-based creatures like beans and toads are immune to the venom of most monsters?
Shamans wield powerful magic, but they're not great fighters up close.  They are most effective when they are part of a team.
Frogogs are poisonous to the touch!  So are their civilized cousins, the frog people.
Mole people don't need swords!  Their natural claws are big enough to do plenty of damage on their own.
Mole folk have poor eyesight, but they can sense far-off creatures when underground.
Frog people and nokis are able to swim by nature.  So there's no need to give them points in swimming, right?
Squeeks are sneaky!  They seem to vanish before the eyes of their enemies.  They can also see in the dark.
Goombas have a strange affinity to other alchemical monsters.  It seems they can sense them from far off.
Subcon crystals are extremely valuable.  If other races learn you have them, they may be more inclined to siege your fortress.
They say that bringing 77 power stars to a star beacon grants the power to conquer the underworld...
The star rod's power in all forms of combat is beyond comparison.  But it takes 50 power stars to make one.
If you are touched by a starman, you will be unstoppable!  But only for a short time.  Make the most of it!
The extract of the tropical dudim phrekenoutonthis causes dizziness, but apparently some people like it.
I've heard that the extract of the dudim phrekenoutonthis fetches a nice price on the market.
Have you ever seen an amayzee dayzee?  You'd be wise to approach one with caution.
Amayzee dayzees give a lot of skill points if you fight one...
A strange, formless creature called mokura lives in deep caves.
The mokura will only show itself if struck by an elemental attack like fire or lightning.
Fire flowers let you shoot fire if you eat them!  They also make great sauce.
Ice powers let you freeze enemies in place.  They're great if you're being attacked by many foes.
Superball flowers let you shoot powerful projectiles.  They can be useful against opponents you don't want to approach.
Save powerups like super mushrooms and fire flowers for tough battles.
Super leaves not only give you a new form, they'll also heal you completely during the transformation.
Super mushrooms are super!  They turn you into a giant.
The rare mega mushroom will enlarge you to a tremendous size.  Save it for when you really need it!
Be wary of strange mushrooms you find deep underground.  Some of them may be bad for your health...
The rage vibe trades attack power for defense.  It'll finish fights quickly.
The gloom vibe makes you tougher, but weakens your offensive ability.
The calm vibe lets you quickly recover your wounds, but you won't be able to move quickly while using it.
The joy vibe gives a boost to your agility, but makes it hard to recover from wounds you have already taken.
Peppers boost your abilities when you eat them.  Red peppers make you stronger!
Peppers boost your abilities when you eat them.  Green peppers make you tougher!
Peppers boost your abilities when you eat them.  Blue peppers make you quicker!
Don't bother me right now.  I'm tired.
RUN AWAY!  HURRY!!!  Hee hee...Just kidding!
Be careful crossing rivers running through the tropical swamp.  Lunge fish may be hiding...
There is a race of machines living somewhere in this world.  You should probably steer clear of their territory.
The Star Beam will grant you great strength against the forces of darkness.
Creatures of the night and the denizens of the underworld fear the power of the Star Beam.
Poochies are friendly and amazingly tough!  Get one if you can!
Lumas eat only Star Bits.  But if you can keep one well-fed, it will eventually turn into a Power Star!
Magma is not much help against dragons.  It'll turn them into a skeleton, but they'll keep coming!
If you wound a dino-rhino, it will transform into a smaller, fire-breathing dino-torch.  Be careful!
Kongs come in many shapes and sizes.  Examine one carefully before you choose to engage it.
Moneybags are strange polar creatures that contain gold bars in their bodies.
If you give a moneybag a nest box, it will produce an endless stream of coins for you.
The chilling howl of the K-9 will unnerve you and make it harder to fight!  Be careful!
Bullies are hard to kill directly, but they can't swim.  Pushing it into water or lava may be your best option.
Some creatures have metal components in their bodies.  I've heard that the koopas know how to extract it.
There is a creature living deep underground that incorporates firemetal threads in its shell.  Magmite, I think...
The strange herbs found in haunted forests can grant special powers when properly cooked.  The toads know how to do it.
The frog people sometimes carry special drinks that grant great recuperation and endurance.
Concentrated red essence grants temporary invulnerability to the one who drinks it!  But where does it come from?
Some yoshis contain a rare gland in their bodies.  It produces a valuable, strength-granting elixir when processed.
Flour, sugar, eggs, and one melon makes a yoshi cookie, a fine treat for yoshis!
Beware of the belome's scarecrow dust attack!  If you breathe it in, you will be unable to walk or fight.
Even if you are turned into a scarecrow, you can still use any special abilities you have learned.
The silence effect will prevent you from speaking.  You won't be able to use magic!
If you get turned into a mushroom, you won't be able to move at all.  But if you manage to survive the battle, all of your wounds will be healed.
Entering quick travel mode or sleeping will cure mushroomization.  If you get transformed while in a bandit camp, tower, or underground...well, that's just too bad!
The fear effect will cut your offensive and defensive skills in half.  Enemies that should be easy to defeat will prove not to be.
There are aliens living among us!  Sometimes they kidnap people and turn them into mushrooms.  It's true!
Don't use bladed weapons against ameboids.  Cutting them into pieces allows them to multiply!
Carroboscis will weaken you with status ailments like silence or scarecrow before attacking.  Be careful!
Shamans can use their 'charm' and 'curse' abilities to tilt the fates in their favor.  These powers are rarely used more than once per battle, so choose your targets wisely!
Shamans lack combat skills, but their powerful magic makes them excellent support.
Stone chomps are created through magic, and they never grow old or die.  There are some people who have been buried alongside their chomps, to guard them and their treasures forever.
Phantos, cursed masks created as tomb guardians, are fast, deadly, and impossible to kill permanently.  Grave robbers, beware!
Beware the shadow sirens!  They hide in the darkness and will attack with elemental magic.
Duplighosts transform into shadowy doppelgangers and steal the identity of other people.  If your identity gets stolen, though, you'll just start playing as the duplighost instead.
The machines sometimes disguise themselves as people and go to live in cities.
Make sure you're well prepared before challenging a disguised machine.  Even before revealing their true shape, they are as tough as steel!
Compared to some other creatures of the night, duplighosts aren't very tough.
A being known as the Shadow Queen once held the world in her terrible grasp, but was banished to the underworld along with her servants in a time before time.
The creatures of the night, the forgotten beasts below the surface, and the demons in the netherworld swear loyalty to an entity known as the Shadow Queen.
It is said that the spirit of the Shadow Queen resides in a palace buried below the surface.  If a suitable vessel were to enter such a place...
Only a being pure of heart, who has not witnessed suffering or known tragedy, can serve as a vessel for the Shadow Queen.
All creatures of the day fear the Shadow Queen, and the Shadow Queen fears only the power of the Star Beam.
The refreshroom guards against dizziness.  It will allow toads to live underground without growing faint!  But you'll need to go underground to find one...
Toads can seal powerups in blocks.  When sealed, a powerup won't rot or be eaten by vermin.  They'll even last if you want to reclaim a lost fortress!
They say that the extract of the baby's eye plant will render one immune to being transformed.  Try and find one before assaulting a wizard's tower or a shroob lair!